.TH FIND\-PROCESS 1 "Marsh 2022" "find-process 1.x" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
find\-process \- Look for processes including command line parameters
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B find\-process
[\fIOPTION\fR]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
This tool can be used to search for a process by name and command line
parameters. This allows you to find a specific process even if started
as a script such as with bash, java, python, etc.
.SH "PLUGINS"
The system loads plugins to handle the actual sitter's work. The sitter
is responsible to find the plugins and run a loop to get all the data
collected and send an email if required.

.SH "COMMAND LINE OPTIONS"
.TP
\fB\-\-build\-date\fR
Display the date and time when the tool was last built.

.TP
\fB\-\-command\-help\fR
List the commands understood by `ipmgr'.

.TP
\fB\-\-compiler\-version\fR
Output the version information of the C++ compiler used to compile the
`advgetopt' library. In most cases, this is the same as the compiler used
to compile the `ipmgr' tool.

.TP
\fB\-\-config\-dir\fR [\fISOURCE\fR]...
Define a list of configuration directories to search for configuration files.

.TP
\fB\-\-configuration\-filenames\fR
List the filename of each configuration file that the `ipmgr' will read
to get initialized. \fBWARNING:\fR this does not include the zones that
get loaded later in the process.

.TP
\fB\-\-config\-warnings\fR \fItrue | false\fR
Whether to show warnings when reading configuration files. Default to false.

.TP
\fB\-\-console\fR
Print the logs out to the console. This overrides the logger configuration
files.

.TP
\fB\-C\fR, \fB\-\-copyright\fR
Print out the copyright notice of the `ipmgr' tool.

.TP
\fB\-\-debug\fR
Change the logger severity to the `debug' level. This command line option
changes the level of all the appenders configured for `ipmgr'.

.TP
\fB\-\-default\-expire\fR \fIduration\fR...
Define the amount of time to remember a zone value, even if stale.
The default is two weeks (2w).

.TP
\fB\-\-default\-group\fR \fIname\fR
Define a default group name. The group names are used to place different
zones within the same directory. For example, you could have groups named
`company', `customers', and `personal'.

.TP
\fB\-\-default\-hostmaster\fR \fIemail\fR
Define a default hostmaster email address for all your zones. You can change
this parameter on a per zone basis.

.TP
\fB\-\-default\-ips\fR \fIIP\fR...
One or more IP addresses to use by default. If you have a single server,
that would be that one IP address (although really you need at least two
servers to make a DNS work correctly since you need two nameserver IP
addresses).

.TP
\fB\-\-default\-minimum\-cache\-failures\fR \fIduration\fR
Define the minimum amount of time a cache refresh attempt has to wait on
a failure before trying again.

.TP
\fB\-\-default\-nameservers\fR \fIsubdomain.domain.tld\fR
Define two or more default nameserver dmain names. The domain names must
include the subdomain, domain, and TLD. These will be used by all the
zones that did not define their own domain nameservers. In most cases,
this is enough.

.TP
\fB\-\-default\-refresh\fR \fIduration\fR
The default refresh duration defines at what rate your secondary DNS server
is to refresh its copies of your domain names.

.TP
\fB\-\-default\-retry\fR \fIduration\fR
Define the retry rate in case the main server does not reply to the
secondary server.

.TP
\fB\-\-default\-ttl\fR \fIduration\fR
Define the TTL of each one of your IP address. Each zone and each IP
address can itself define its own TTL. The default is used everywhere else.

.TP
\fB\-\-dns\-ip\fR \fIIP\fR
Define an IP address to use to dynamically update DNS zones.

.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-dry\-run\fR
Do not run the commands that will modify the BIND9 settings. Useful to
first verify that everything compiles as expected.

.TP
\fB\-\-environment\-variable\-name\fR
Print the name of the variable to the console. This variable can be used
to enter options instead of writing them on the command line or the
setup file. Commands are not allowed in the environment variable.

.TP
\fB\-\-force\-severity\fR \fIlevel\fR
Change the logger severity to this specific level. This new level is
applied to all the defined appenders. The lelve is changed whether it
is higher or lower than the current appender's level.

.TP
\fB\-\-has\-sanitizer\fR
Print whether this version was compiled with the C++ compiler sanitizer.

.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Print a brief document about the tool usage, then exit.

.TP
\fB\-L\fR, \fB\-\-license\fR
Print out the license of `ipmgr' and exit.

.TP
\fB\-\-list\-severities\fR
List the available severities as used by the logger.

.TP
\fB\-\-log\-component\fR \fIname\fR...
Define one or more component name to filter the logs. Only logs with that
component are output, others are ignored. You can use the `!' (exclamation
mark) character in front of a name to exclude logs from that component.

.TP
\fB\-\-log\-config\fR \fIfilename\fR
Only load this very configuration file to setup the logger.

.TP
\fB\-\-log\-config\-path\fR \fIpath\fR
Define a path to search for log configuration files instead of using the
default.

.TP
\fB\-\-log\-file\fR \fIfilename\fR
Save the logs in this specific file instead of what is defined in the
configuration files.

.TP
\fB\-\-logger\-configuration\-filenames\fR
List the files that the logger will read to be setup. If not files are found,
then messages will appear in the console by default.

.TP
\fB\-\-logger\-hide\-banner\fR
Request that the logger does not print the banner in the console. This is
particularly useful for command line options (opposed to a service). The
`ipmgr' service automatically turns this option on.

.TP
\fB\-\-logger\-show\-banner\fR
Request that the logger prints its banner when it starts. This is useful
if you run the tool from a service and want to make sure the administrator
knows which version of the tool is being used.

.TP
\fB\-\-logger\-version\fR
Print out the version of the Snap! Logger and exit.

.TP
\fB\-\-log\-severity\fR \fIlevel\fR
Change the severity to this level unless the appender already accepts logs
for a lower level. So for example, an appender setup to output logs with a
severity level of `error' or higher will be affected by the `warning' level.
An appender setup to output logs with a severity level of `info' will not
be changed when setting this command line option to `warning'.

.TO
\fB\-\-no\-log\fR
Turn off the logger so nothing gets printed out. This is somewhat similar
to a quiet or silent option that many Unix tools offer.

.TP
\fB\-\-option\-help\fR
Print the list of options supported by `ipmgr'.

.TP
\fB\-\-path\-to\-option\-definitions\fR
Option definitions can be defined in a .ini file. If it exists, this is the
path where it can be found.

.TO
\fB\-q\fR, \fB\-\-quiet\fR
Make the `ipmgr' quiet. This flag cancels the effect of \-\-verbose flag.
This is also the default.

.TP
\fB\-\-show\-option\-sources\fR
The `advgetopt' library has the ability to trace where each value is
read from: which file, the command line, the environment variable.
This option can be used to determine where a value is defined, which once
in a while is particularly useful.

.TP
\fB\-\-slave\fR [\fItrue | false\fR]
Request the `ipmgr' to generate bind files for the slave server if set to
true.

.TP
\fB\-\-syslog\fR [\fIidentity\fR]
Send the logs to the system `syslog'. If specified, the `identity' is used
along each message.

.TP
\fB\-\-trace\fR
Change the logger severity to the TRACE level. All appenders will accept
all the logs that they receive.

.TP
\fB-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Show the various steps table by the `ipmgr' before running them.

.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
print version number, then exit

.TP
\fB\-\-zone\-directories\fR [\fIDIRECTORY\fR]...
One of more directories to read zone files from. The directories are searched
for .conf files which will be transformed to BIND9 compatible .zone files.

.SH "ZONE DIRECTORIES"
.PP
By default, the zone directories are set to the following three directories:
.TP
/usr/share/ipmgr/zones
A directory where other projects are expected to drop zone files.
.TP
/etc/ipmgr/zones
The directory where the system administrator is expected to add zone files.
.TP
/var/lib/ipmgr/zones
A directory where dynamically created zones are expected to be installed.
.PP
.BR Note:
Zone directories are read in the order specified. This can be
important if you want a file to make changes, it is possible to do so in a
later directory. All the files are read before they get processed.

.SH AUTHOR
Written by Alexis Wilke <alexis@m2osw.com>.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to <https://github.com/m2osw/ipmgr/issues>.
.br
ipmgr home page: <https://snapwebsites.org/project/ipmgr>.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2022 Made to Order Software Corporation
.br
License: GPLv3
.br
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
.br
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR find\-process (5)
